Good morning everyone.
Welcome to the audio
and QuickTime session.
I hope you enjoyed that slight demo that
we had of some of the things that we're
going to be showing you today as well.
So this session is covering changes
to the QuickTime audio foundation.
Basically the big changes,
we're using Core Audio natively.
We're removing the code that's
depending on Sound Manager.
This is bringing a lot of new
capabilities to QuickTime's
audio infrastructure,
and as well we're going to talk a
little bit about audio codec news.
So we're going to be
focusing today on playback,
export,
some changes to DV audio that we made,
and as well news from
the audio codec team.
And the technology frameworks
that we're covering today
are QuickTime and Core Audio,
and without any further pause,
I'm going to introduce Greg Chapman who's
going to be talking about audio playback.
So we've been having a lot of fun,
as you might imagine.
So the main thing we wanted to do
with this revision of QuickTime was
to remove all those restrictions
that the sound manager put on us.
We wanted to have more than
two channels per track.
You've been listening to some 5.1,
the Linkin Park and the
Bugs Bunny was all 5.1,
so you can hear center, right and left,
right and left surround,
and into the subs.
We wanted to have high sample rates.
Sound Manager limited us to basically
a 16-bit number for the sample rate.
We're talking to Core Audio now,
so we're doing much better on this front.
We wanted more than 16
bits per integer sample.
We could support playback
of 24 and 32-bit integer,
but we would always bring it back
down to 16-bit to play it out,
so you'd lose all that nice depth.
We also wanted to support
floating point samples.
We used to be able to do this.
Again, we'd convert to 16-bit.
You'd lose all that nice depth.
The other thing we wanted to do
was to be able to do multi-tracks
around where you could have,
for example, for 5.1,
you could have six mono tracks,
each one labeled as being left, right,
center, whatever,
and then have them mixed together,
sample accurate, and come out all the
appropriate speakers.
So let me go to demo two and
let's show you what we've got.
I'm going to play this whole trailer.
Tim played part of it in the
QuickTime State of the Union.
We want to see the whole thing.
This is 5.1.
Proceed as you still are.
Only human.
All of our lives,
we have fought this war.
Tonight, I believe we can end it.
That's a nice trigger.
Oh, that's great.
Mr.
Anderson.
Surprised to see me?
So now he's found a way to code himself.
Now he's more than one of them.
have to do to be able to play
such content in your app?
And the answer is absolutely nothing.
Your app can play this as soon as
we ship this version of QuickTime.
Let me show you iTunes.
iTunes doesn't know about
QuickTime support for multi-channel.
iTunes will play,
iTunes does not use QuickTime to play
MP3s or the new music store content,
but if you hand it a movie that
it doesn't know how to play,
it'll use QuickTime to play it.
Here's an example of this.
This is a Linkin Park song.
I think it's the same one
we played when we came in.
It takes a little bit.
and others.
I'm not going to play
that whole song again,
as fun as it was.
So that's an example of an app that,
you know, we just installed a different
QuickTime underneath it,
plays back this movie,
it gets surround sound.
No worries.
Okay, let's go back to slides.
So how did we do that?
There's a couple of things.
There's some file format
things we had to do.
There's a new version of the sound
description that's in the soundtrack.
It describes sample
rate as a 64-bit float,
for example.
There's a new optional sound description
extension that tells you what the
channel layout is for the track.
Is this left and right?
Is it 5.1?
Is it just left?
We've rewritten the sound media handler
so that it can understand these things,
and it talks to Core Audio instead
of the sound manager,
as you might imagine.
And the new multi-track mixer that
I mentioned that does sample accurate
mix between soundtracks so that you can
have your surround spread between tracks.
Let me talk a little bit about
channel mapping and how that works.
Historically,
movies can have one or more soundtracks.
Usually they're alternates,
but you could have more than one
soundtrack playing at the same time.
Each track could only
have one or two channels,
and if you had two,
we would just assume that it
was left followed by right.
And if you had a multi-track movie,
it would always mix to mono or stereo
depending what your output device was.
So if you had three stereo tracks,
you'd end up with stereo out.
And it makes a certain amount of sense,
but it's kind of limiting.
In this lovely new world,
tracks can have any number of channels.
They're assigned to speakers using
a sound description extension,
as I mentioned.
And each track can contribute
to the movie's channel layout.
For example, 5.1 could be one track
with six channels in it,
could be six mono tracks
labeled according to what
speaker they should go to.
Or it could be a five-channel track
and then a one-channel LFE track
or three stereo tracks or whatever.
You just have to mark them appropriately
and then we'll play them back correctly.
The order of the track in the movie
is not important as long as the
channel assignments are labeled.
And your old movies that have
unlabeled mono and stereo,
they behave as before,
as you would expect.
And if you're playing to a stereo device,
if I took that Matrix trailer and you
played it back on your computer with
no six-channel device plugged in,
that would downmix to stereo
and you would hear all the
left side and the left,
all the right side and the right,
and you'd hear center and both sides.
So let me show you a
little bit about that.
We'll go back to demo two.
I've got three movies here.
These are actually quad.
Let me show you what they look like.
So the one change we made to player
[Transcript missing]
Left, right.
Left, saran.
Right, saran.
Okay.
Thank you, Kevin.
Here's this one.
This one has four tracks.
Let's take a look at each one of those.
This first track is a mono track.
It goes in right.
Second one's left surround.
It's a strange order,
but right surround and then left.
That's kind of cool.
Is that going to go to the right places?
Left, right.
Left Saran, Right Saran.
There's always that little
hesitation before that one
comes in that makes me nervous.
And this one, just to be different,
it's also four tracks.
This one goes left, right, left surround.
Right surround as you might expect,
and this one will play
back correctly too.
Left, right, left surround.
There we go.
Right surround.
Okay.
So you can see that we're
actually following the labeling.
We're not just doing something
in the order of the tracks.
Let's go back to slides.
OK, let me talk about a few
interesting new APIs in QuickTime.
Now that we're talking to Core Audio,
there's some new things
you may need to do.
The first one is Qt
Convert Sound Description.
We now have three different
versions of sound descriptions.
If you look at sound
descriptions yourself,
this is starting to become a nightmare.
So we put in an API where you can
take any version of sound description,
convert it to any other
version of sound description.
We have a mode where you can convert
it to the lowest possible version of
sound description given the format
that's described so that you can get
the best possible backward compatibility
when you're creating movies,
so old versions of
QuickTime can play them.
And you can go to and from an
audio stream basic description,
which is core audio's struct
that describes a stream of audio.
So that's very useful for just
taking a sound description,
you convert it to an ASBD,
and carry on with core audio.
These are the obvious ones you might
want to have to set a movie to play
to a particular audio output device.
Device UIDs are a core audio concept.
It's a CFString.
It's a unique identifier for the device.
We used to have media set sound output
component where you could grab a sound
manager sound output component and say,
please play to this device.
If you call the old API,
we will try underneath to determine
what the actual core audio
device is that that sound output
component was going to talk to,
and then we'll play to that guy.
We'll try and do the right thing.
We have two levels of API here.
One is to set the movie to play,
and then media set is
for individual tracks.
So you can, as before,
set individual tracks in a movie
to play to different devices.
Extract movie audio.
This is something that people
have asked for for a while.
Have a way to take a movie and just
get uncompressed audio out of it.
Mix across tracks,
decompress the tracks as necessary.
This is the one that's going
to allow you to do this.
And it returns a core audio buffer list,
which means you can then take that,
put it in a queue for some AU graph
to have a ball with and play it
out or whatever you want to do.
There's these APIs,
Begin and I'm not really
going to go through these.
I'm just going to show you some
sample code that will be posted
that you can take a look at.
Let's go to Demo 2.
Okay.
Yes, it's Unix.
I wrote a command line app and I'm going
to show you the routine that I wrote.
It just takes a movie,
extracts the audio uncompressed,
and writes it to an AIFF file,
which is a boring thing to do,
but I could imagine that you guys
might think of something more
interesting to do with the audio
buffer list you get out of the movie.
So it takes a movie and it takes
the name of the AIFF file you want.
You come down,
you begin movie audio extraction.
You can ask the audio extraction
session what its default
output format is going to be.
And that default is
generally 32-bit float.
It's all the channels in the movie
from all the soundtracks in the movie.
It does no mixdown by default.
And I think it picks the highest
sample rate in the movie.
if there are multiple sample rates,
otherwise it's the sample rate.
But that's not what I want.
I want to put it in an AIFF file,
so I want 16-bit Big Endian samples.
So that's what I say here.
I did that by hand.
Core Audio has much nicer
C++ classes for dealing with
AudioStream basic descriptions.
You tell the extraction
session what you want,
so I send in what I want.
I wanted 16 bits per channel,
and I wanted signed Big Endian, blah,
blah, blah.
Allocate your Core Audio buffer list.
Mine's real simple.
I've only got one buffer
because it's all interleaved,
but you could get deinterleaved
float32 buffers if you wanted.
Set up my AIFF file,
and I call extractMovieAudio.
This is the interesting loop.
You watch this flags word that
comes out of extractMovieAudio
for this bit to be set.
When that bit is set, you're done,
and each buffer you pull,
you write it out to the file or
pass it off to your AU graph,
whatever you want to do,
and then we do this.
So let me just show you this running.
I wrote a little batch script
to do it because the command
line tool is really ugly.
But let's see,
I'm in the same folder here
and you'll watch that show up.
Do it.
And over here we have, suddenly,
an AIFF file.
This is an AAC movie, which is actually,
people who have tried to get
audio out of movies by themselves,
it's really hard when you're
dealing with a VBR codec.
There are seeming issues between
buffers and you get pops and
it's just a pain in the butt.
But, here we are,
we've got this and it plays beautifully.
[Transcript missing]
See, this is stereo,
and you just heard what we do with stereo
when we have a multi-channel output,
which is we put it in right and left,
as you would expect.
All right.
That was fun.
Go back to slides.
Now I'm going to bring up Brad Ford,
and he's going to talk to you about
exporting these new kinds of audio.
Thanks Greg,
and thank all of you for caring
enough to get out of bed early.
Greg said that we've
been having a lot of fun.
I would use a different
word to describe it,
probably pain.
But that's the whole mantra of QuickTime.
We write the hard code so
that you don't have to.
And a great deal of pain has gone
into making these bits play back to
the right place at the right time.
And we would really hate it if all of
this work were wasted by not giving
you a way to author this content.
So thus we needed to give you a way
to export to these formats as well.
[Transcript missing]
So now in QuickTime 6.4,
we have a new standard
sound compression component.
I'm kind of loath to say it's a new
dialogue because it's oh so much more.
It's a dialogue in one case,
but it's also just a sound configurator.
It can export to and
from all the new formats.
We can play it back.
We'll let you export to it.
Standard sound works well with or
without QuickTime's default dialogue,
which makes it easy for you
to put custom UI on top of it.
So any application you might develop
that would need to export audio,
you can use your own beautiful
UI and just use our standard sound
component to drive it and let
it keep track of all the state,
ask it questions,
and we make this possible
with new property APIs,
which I'll be talking about in a minute.
Also, the default dialogue
is now a lot smarter.
We don't make the same
mistakes that we made before.
It's easier for me to show this
to you than to talk about it.
So let's go to demo two.
Okay.
Here we've got the same lovely,
riveting Warner Brothers sound effects
content that you heard earlier.
I'm just going to bring up the...
Export dialog.
I'm going to export to a QuickTime movie.
And this is the new
standard sound dialog.
This is what the UI looks like.
You'll notice a lot of
changes from the old one.
First of all,
gone are 32-bit floating point,
24-bit integer,
and all the other uncompressed
formats pretending that they
were really compressed formats.
Now, if you're uncompressed,
you're uncompressed all the time.
And you get to different flavors
of yourself by going down to this
codec-specific settings area where
you can set your sample size to
be what it really is and you can
tell us whether you're floating
point or unsigned or little endian,
things like that.
Also of note are -- and I expect
some oohs and ahhs here.
Ooh.
Ah.
That's a lot more channel layouts
than we ever -- -- supported before.
You want to do mono or stereo,
that's fine.
You can still do that.
But you can also tag the
content in your movie.
We'll let you export to as many
tracks or as many channels as
you have in your input movie.
So if you've got six tracks or six
channels of audio in your input movie,
we'll present, you know,
all the five ohs, all the five dot ones.
Makes sense.
Also, here's another ooh-ahh moment.
Wow.
Sample rates that go up beyond 64.
So we'll let you go to 24-bit,
96 kilohertz audio.
No problem.
And as a first,
let's go back to AAC where
for the first time we'll let
you export multichannel AAC,
which opens up a lot of really
interesting possibilities
for web content delivery.
You know,
you can export AAC in the range of
say 192 to 320 kilobits per second.
That's low enough that you could
transfer transfer it over the internet,
surround sound.
Pretty interesting.
Okay, so let's go ahead and save
this out to the desktop.
Okay, here we go.
And let's quickly look at the info.
Now we've taken all the tracks
and we've put the audio in
each track down into one track,
but it's still got all the channels.
They're just all in one track.
So we can play this back.
You get the idea.
AAC 5.1.
You witnessed it first in public.
Okay, let's go back to slides please.
That actually was the first public
demo of 5.1 AAC export in QuickTime.
Feel special.
So what application
changes are necessary?
Many of you probably
use these old friends,
these APIs, convert movie to file or
convert movie to data ref.
If you do, you'll know that it has a lot
of parameters and the last
parameter is a component instance,
which is the component instance of
the exporter that you're going to use.
And there are three ways
that you can do this.
You can pass in nil
for the last parameter,
which tells QuickTime,
I don't care what exporter you use,
just do the right thing.
You can also pass in a component,
not a component instance,
which means you find the right component
of the type and subtype that you want,
but you don't open it, and you say,
I know I really want
to use this component,
but I don't care about special settings,
so still do the right thing.
And the third one that you
can do is you can actually
open that component yourself,
do some special configuration to it,
and then pass it as that last parameter.
If you do the first case, pass nil.
Or the second case, pass nil.
Or the second case,
passing just the component,
you don't have to make any changes.
Your export will work
with the new settings.
You'll get the new audio
exporting by default.
Now if you do open your
own movie export directly,
you must opt in.
You must be explicit.
Otherwise we don't know if
you're prepared to handle the new
properties and the new settings
that we're going to give you.
So the way that you opt in is
you call this lovely new call,
QT set component property.
I'll be talking about these component
properties more in a minute.
But you can see you just pass in the
exporter that you're talking about,
the class, and the property ID is
KMovieExporterPropertyID enable
2003 audio features.
Pretty long property name.
And it's a Boolean.
And if you say yes,
then you are telling us that you're
ready to handle these new settings.
Now if you have opted in,
you may just need to
opt in and you're done.
You will only need to make
further changes if you're ready
to handle these new settings.
So if you have opted in,
you may just need to make further
changes if you call MovieExport
get settings as Atom container
and parse the settings yourself.
If you do that, so I don't want to tell
you not to do that,
but it's kind of risky to do that because
we might do things like we just did
when we changed audio underneath you
and give you all different settings.
So if you have code to parse them,
you need to be ready because you're
going to get different settings.
[Transcript missing]
The property type is specified
by a class as well as an ID.
That means you get two 4-care codes
or eight care codes to work with
instead of just one 4-care code.
Which is kind of good because it sort
of gives you a little bit of a buffer
in the area of namespace collision.
So if I'm a component and you're
a component and I have sample
rate property and you have sample
rate property but yours is a float
64 and mine's an unsigned fixed,
I can still protect myself if our
property names are the same because
I have a class 4-care code that puts
mine in a different space than yours.
Also, all of the data is explicitly
typed in the get info call.
So if you make a get info call and you
don't have to know anything about me,
you can just query me,
what are your properties?
I have to tell you what the type
of the property is and the size.
So it's very explicit,
even if you don't have the header file,
what the property is.
Okay, so the get info call also
gives you some flags that tell
you some important things.
This is a logical extension of what
they were doing in Core Audio as well.
They have a great call in get info that
lets you see if the property is settable.
So ours gives you a bitmap,
a flags field that lets
you see if perhaps... Yes,
the property is settable
but I can't set it now.
Maybe my hardware is not ready.
So maybe it'll return can
set later or can get later.
So you can get meta information about
the property by getting these flags out,
including one of the most important ones,
will notify listeners.
And I should mention
standard sound compression,
the new dialog has, like I said,
about 50 new properties and I think
all of them but five are listenable.
So you can build a very
sophisticated app that's very dumb.
underneath because all it has to
do is listen for property changes.
What do they look like?
So here are the actual calls.
I've already talked about them
so I won't stay on this long.
It has a class, it has an ID,
it has the type,
which is also a 4-care code,
it has a size,
and then it has that flags field
that tells you can get now,
can get later.
Here is how you would
implement a property listener.
Let's say you are listening for
my available sample rate list.
My available sample rate may change based
on whether or not the compressor changes.
So you would set up my listener
proc and you typically have a big
switch statement in it in which you
would handle all of the property
IDs that you'd registered for.
So I just did a simple little printf
statement there and go and update my UI.
And then you would tell the component,
like standard compression,
you would first make a new component
property listener UPP and then you
would register for that notification
by saying call component,
add component property listener.
Or if you're using the
QuickTime version for Jaguar,
you would say QT,
add component property listener
with the exact same parameters.
And once you do that,
you are listening for that property
and you will continue listening for
that property until you remove it.
There is one important thing I should
mention about these property APIs.
Due to a minor oversight,
the glue code got into Panther,
got into the seed CDs that
you received on Monday,
but the header file didn't
make it there in time.
It wasn't promoted to public status.
So that was a little bit
of a minor oversight.
Okay, here is a great little app that
was written by Adrian Baerlacher,
another member of the
QuickTime engineering team.
And I'm very proud of this app
because he wrote it very quickly,
and it's the most slick,
under-thousand-line code app that one
could write because it keeps no state.
All of its state is managed by the
standard sound compression dialog.
So maybe you're like Adrian,
you think that the standard sound
compression dialog is swell,
but you really just can't get
enough metal in your life,
and you want more metal.
Or maybe you want it to have your
own custom UI look like he did.
So you are able to use standard sound
to do all of your configuration and
put up your own UI on top of it.
So let's take the same content we
heard before that has the left.
Right.
Left surround.
Right surround.
And we'll use his UI.
Now remember, this is being driven
entirely by the properties.
So every time I tweak a setting here,
it's doing a set component
property call or it's listening
for changes and updating the UI.
So let's go ahead and do this export.
I suppose I should select
an output location.
Export.
This is a pretty full-featured app,
and it's under a thousand lines of code.
Left, right.
Left, surround.
Right, surround.
So there we took a quad and we
mixed it down to stereo and it
still plays in the right places.
If you'd like to learn more about
the component property APIs or
standard sound compression in general,
please come to our lab between 12:00
and 2:00 today where you'll hear more.
Thanks.
And now I'll bring back Tim.
So we thought this feature was really,
really good.
We worked really, really hard.
We were a little bit confused.
We might have been
drinking strange things.
So we want to show you a little
bit what we are going through.
Can we go back to demo two, please?
This around's gone again.
Oh man!
Wish I didn't have to work on audio.
QuickTime is back to normal!
Thank you!
So that was a stupid movie that a
lot of people on the QuickTime team
worked really really hard to film
and direct and dream up I guess.
That was probably either
the easiest or the hardest.
So I'm going to talk a little bit
about some DV audio changes back to,
you know, real content.
So we made some changes in QuickTime 6.3.
The issue with DV audio was that there's
two basic ways that you can store
DV audio inside of a QuickTime movie.
The first way is you can store inside a
track as PCM audio and basically extract
it from the DV frames as you capture.
That's what Final Cut Pro does,
that's what QuickTime Sequence
Grabber does,
and there's been generally no problems
with long-term AV sync in that case.
The other way you could do it is
you could have the audio track index
every frame of DV and reference
the DV audio inside the DV frame.
And that's what iMovie's doing when
it captures and that's what the
QuickTime DV importer is doing.
And the issue there is that audio
in that case is represented as a
fixed number of samples per DV frame,
which is a problem because it isn't.
If you look at the duration
of a frame in NTSC,
it's basically a variable number
of audio samples per frame.
And when we represent
it as a fixed value,
which is basically the maximum
number that could occur,
we're basically accumulating
a drift in some cases.
So in playback it's a very
small amount of audio,
but in our export and our editing cases,
we were accumulating about a one
frame of video error in the audio
for about every two and a half
minutes of export or editing,
depending on the case.
So we had a fairly large problem with
some AV sync in some applications.
So the solution that we decided
to do is represent DV frames
having variable duration,
which is really the correct thing to do.
So we have a new type, which is VDVA,
and it's a variable duration DV,
and that's new in QuickTime 6 3.
It's also going to be in
6 4 and forever after.
That's the default when
you're importing a DV clip.
When you use the
QuickTime importer and in iMovie,
it's now going to be representing
them as variable duration.
So, a couple of reminders
when you're looking at DV,
if you're playing around and actually
looking at DV audio in the tracks,
you're going to see the new type,
K-variable duration DV audio format.
You may see the old type because
files that were created before
6.3 will still have the old type.
And the important thing is if you're
playing with sound descriptions
and you're using the new type,
you must set the compression
ID to variable compression.
And that's how we
basically make this work,
and so we've actually achieved
a really good audio-video sync.
And I just wanted to point
out a couple of things.
A lot of the support that you're
seeing will be available when
QuickTime 6.4 ships on Jaguar as well.
That's something that we're working on to
make sure that the multi-channel support,
et cetera,
is going to be working on that platform.
We're using a mobile I.O.
audio box to drive the audio,
the six-channel audio.
It's connected via FireWire.
And, of course, we're using the Core.
We're using the Core audio support
and their drivers to make that happen.
And with that, I'd like to introduce, oh,
one more thing.
One more thing,
which is for those interested
in AV startup sync issues,
we have a session this afternoon at
2 where we're going to be talking
about some changes we're making
for audio-video startup sync.
We figure that's more advanced
programming than audio,
so we put it in that session.
And now I'd like to
introduce Eric Aldrich,
who's going to talk about
audio codec development.
Thank you, Tim.
Thank you, Eric.
This is wonderful.
QuickTime 6.4 built on top of Core Audio.
But now we're going to take a
little journey to Core Audio land.
We're going to talk about audio codecs.
What is an audio codec?
Essentially, it's the business end of
QuickTime on the audio side.
It's going to actually
handle your encoding and your
decoding of your audio format.
Audio codecs are going to replace
your SCOMs and your SDECs.
They're now called ADECs and AANCs.
And right now, in your seed CD,
we have AAC, MP3, and IMA.
And we've already shipped AAC before,
since QuickTime 6.
Okay, so how do you go about
writing an audio codec?
Well,
we make it a little bit easier for you.
There's a lot of code involved,
but we provide you an audio codec SDK.
It's available on the
connect.apple.com site,
your core audio.
We provide you a framework,
basically just needed
to implement a codec.
It's fairly basic,
but you can do quite a bit with it.
We give you some sample codec,
which is IMA41,
Important point to note is
you do not have to implement
both an encoder and a decoder.
You can implement one and not the other.
Example of this is that MP3,
we've only implemented the decode.
We have not implemented the encode.
Another thing that's important
about audio codecs is we
use a push and pull model.
You push the data in and you pull
the resulting transformation out.
Keep that in mind when
I'm talking about this.
Required files for
writing an audio codec.
Fairly straightforward.
A big one there is ACBaseCodec,
which is pretty much your
base class for everything.
You're going to use this
in every codec you write.
Basically,
all these files provide the framework
for what you will need to implement.
Handles all the dispatching,
all the nitty gritty dirty
details of talking to the
sound converter and the like,
or excuse me, the audio converter,
which was detailed in session 404.
We have an optional file,
which is AC Simple Codec,
and this implements a basic buffer.
For very basic sound codecs,
audio codecs, we provide buffer,
the buffering implementation for you.
You don't have to do it.
But for things that are fairly elaborate,
you're going to want
to use something else.
And then you're going to have to
deal with codec-specific files.
For instance, if you're doing AAC or MP3,
you're going to want an AAC codec file.
You're going to inherit directly
from either base or simple codec.
Then you have several methods
you'll have to implement,
and these are analogous to a few things
that were already in the sound codecs.
Of course,
you have your property management,
which is get property info, get property,
set property.
You have your initialized
and uninitialized,
which is basically lock down
the codec and then unlock it.
You have append input data,
which is the push of the push-pull model,
where you'll push your data in.
Then you have produce output packets,
which is your pull on
the push-pull model.
And that's where you're going to get
your decoded or encoded data out of.
A few things you need to think about.
Like before you had open a component.
Now that is handled
mostly in the constructor.
Your input, your default formats will be
handled in Constructor as well.
You need to handle the encoder
and decoder separately.
A model that we have used is we create,
you have a lot of common
functionality in codecs,
whether you're encoding or decoding,
so a lot of that we put into a generic,
here we say my codec,
and then we inherit directly from that,
we create my decoder and my encoder.
And that's the model
you want to think about.
That allows us to add, for instance,
on MP3, we have an MP3 codec,
then we inherit,
the MP3 decoder inherits MP3 codec,
and if we later choose
to implement an encoder,
for instance, we'll also inherit directly
from the MP3 codec file.
Okay, when dealing with properties,
I can't stress enough that
this is probably the most
One of the most important features
of what you'll be dealing with,
this is basically you're configuring
your codec before you lock it all down.
So you have your get property info.
It tells you how much data is
required for each property.
And more importantly,
it tells you whether
or not you can set it.
And there will be two cases of this.
A, you cannot set it, or B,
you can set it when the
codec is not initialized.
And we'll get into that a little bit.
Get property, not all that much to say.
You just have to realize
that at any time,
this could be called.
And it is all right to answer,
I don't know.
If someone asks you for your bit rate
and your bit rate hasn't been configured,
you could say, you know, zero, say,
I don't know.
Or you can say, just report a default.
But it's important to understand
that this can be called at any time.
And there are some properties that
won't even be known until after runtime.
So that's possible.
You can just say, I don't know.
Set property, again,
is not always available.
Depends if the codec's
been initialized or not.
Initialize and uninitialize.
Again, initialize is just basically
locking down the codec.
At that point,
when someone calls initialize,
whatever they have set,
you take that and that's how
you set up the audio codec.
If they have not set all
the appropriate properties,
it is if you can use default values and
if you can make something out of it,
you can initialize at whatever
settings have been set,
or you can fail.
That's perfectly legal.
If they haven't provided you enough data,
you can fail.
And uninitialize just
simply removes this lock.
It's basically a Boolean.
Am I initialized or am I not?
Append input data,
fairly straightforward.
You basically take your input data
and you put it in an internal buffer.
Important thing to note though is
you have to deal with audio packet,
you know,
audio stream packet descriptions.
All VBR codecs should handle these.
Very important for MP3, AAC,
and the like.
CBR codecs, you don't have to.
It's nice,
you can handle them if you choose,
but it's not really required.
Produce output packets,
does the actual encoding or decoding.
You don't have to have the actual encode,
decode right there.
You can call a separate function or a
separate library or whatever to do it.
That's where you actually handle it.
Again, on the encode side,
if you're a VBR codec,
you have to fill out the audio
stream packet descriptions.
Another thing to note here,
this is where you're going to actually
handle clearing your input buffer.
Even though they're pen input data,
you're going to deal with handling,
handing the data in and
produce output packets.
You're going to update all your buffers.
You have to remember to do that here.
and backward compatibility.
Kind of an important thing.
There's a lot of QuickTime 6.
There are copies of QuickTime 6 out
there and Panther hasn't shipped yet.
We allow you, so you can deal with the
old SCOM and SDEC world,
we give you sound manager
audio components which allows
you to wrap an audio codec.
So to old versions of QuickTime it looks
just like an old sound manager component,
SDEC and SCOM.
And we're going to be providing
an SDK that does this on our site.
Anyway.
You will need to implement
this if you want that support.
That's kind of important.
But very straightforward.
And we've been shipping
these for a while.
This is how we implemented
AAC from the get-go.
So this is proven technology,
and it's been working for quite a while.
So, at this point, one important thing,
some documentation on all of this.
I'm going to read this here.
The core audio overview,
which you can get basically
at connectonapple.com.
Take a look at it, provide any feedback.
We'd appreciate it.
Thank you.
The non-technical stuff here.
For the roadmap, these are the
We have a bunch of sessions going on
also for content developers on QuickTime.
One thing that is not noted here is that
if you really care deeply about audio,
there is a feedback forum
starting just after we finish this
session across the aisle here.
So if you have any comments that you
want to provide to the audio team,
this is the right place
to go and provide that.
We have a QuickTime feedback
forum tomorrow afternoon.
We will welcome you all there if you have
any questions or if you have any comments
that you want to make about QuickTime.
That's my name and my address that you
can use if you have any further comments,
any further questions after
the conference is finished.
For more information,
you can go to the developer site,
QuickTime.
If you have any, you want to see where
QuickTime is in general,
you can go to the Apple site, QuickTime.
And for information,
you can go to the documentation site.
There is a QuickTime section
on it that has been updated
just for this conference.
are all present here.
There is documentation and sample
code that is only available to
you if you go to the ADC site,
download, place,
and go to the QuickTime stuff.
So it should be available
right now for you.
Also, we have mentioned this
many times this morning,
there is a QuickTime lab
going on downstairs.
So if you have any questions,
for instance, today is the special day
for any audio questions.
All the engineers from the audio team
will be down there at the lab today.
All day you can go down there.
It's in the first floor Sacramento room.
There is also some assistance
for content development if
that's what you're interested in.